A total hip replacement is a surgical procedure
that replaces damaged cartilage and bone
in your hip with artificial components.
Some hip replacements require
a large incision on the back of the hip.
This approach requires muscles to be cut
in order for your surgeon to see
the bones of your hip joint.
A direct anterior hip replacement
is a muscle sparing surgical technique.
A direct anterior approach uses a small
incision on the front of your hip.
With this approach, muscles are not cut.
Instead two muscles at the front of your hip
are slid apart at a natural separation point.
A smaller incision and less damage
to muscles and soft tissues around the hip
may result in less pain after surgery
and a faster recovery
compared to traditional hip replacement surgery.
To begin a direct anterior approach for hip replacement,
your surgeon makes an incision in the front of your hip
and separates two muscles to gain access to your hip joint.
With the hip joint now exposed,
the ball portion at the top of your femur,
or thighbone, is removed.
A tool called a reamer
is used to prepare the acetabulum,
or socket, to accept the acetabular portion
of the hip replacement.
This component includes a metal shell
and a plastic liner.
A femoral stem is implanted in your thighbone.
The ball, or femoral head,
is attached to the stem.
The new ball portion of the thighbone
is inserted into the socket part of the hip.
Before closing, the surgeon will move
the new hip implant to ensure
that it is functioning properly.
The artificial components are designed to
reproduce the mobility of the natural hip joint.
Talk with your surgeon about the
best approach and implant for you.